-* text -*-

Changes since 1.4.4:

1. The runtest.1 man page has been brought up to date.
2. The Docbook/SGML documentation files were removed in favour of the
   Docbook/XML documentation.  The Texinfo source for the Info pages is
   now automatically generated from the Docbook source.
3. The Makefile structure has been substantially simplified.  There
   is now a single top-level Makefile.am.  The use of recursive make
   has been eliminated.
4. lib/mondfe.exp and lib/xsh.exp have been removed.  Users requiring
   these communication modes can still use the DejaGnu 1.4 branch or
   can contact dejagnu@gnu.org to discuss reinstating these files.
5. The configure script now ensures that Expect is installed and that
   it is linked against Tcl 8.3 or greater.
6. The runtest program now gracefully handles the possibility of the
   expect binary vanishing after DejaGnu has been installed (for
   example, by the user altering their PATH).
7. The user-visible utility procedures `absolute', `prune', `psource'
   and `slay' are deprecated and will be removed in the next release.
   If a testsuite uses any of these procedures, a copy of the
   procedure should be made and placed in the lib directory of the
   testsuite.

Changes since 1.4.2:

1. New XML output option, so test results can be loaded into a database.
2. Support for the KFAIL/KPASS (known failures).
3. New "Hello World" example.
4. New tutorial chapter.
5. Test cases build with either GCC 2.x or 3.x.
6. BlueGnu has been removed from the contrib directory.
7. The contrib/test* scipts were bitrotten and have been removed.  If
   you still want copies of these, they can be found in the previous
   DejaGnu release.
8. i960glue.c has been removed.

Changes since 1.4.1:

1. Various patches for bugs reported from net users.
2. Test case builds with either libstdc++-v3 (as used by GCC 3.0.x) or
   the older v2 (as used by GCC 2.95.x).

Changes since 1.4.0:

1. There is new support for a simple unit testing API, that is also
   useful for embedded testing.

Changes since 1.3:

1. DejaGnu is now back under active maintainance. The initial work has
   been rewriting the manual to bring it up to date, and switching to
   SGML.
2. NT support has also been added.
3. DejaGnu now uses Automake.

Changes since 1.1.1:

1. Works with (included in release) Tcl 7.3 and Expect 5.6.
2. Much better error trapping and handling, including the execution of
   sub scripts.
3. Re-worked configuration subsystem.
4. Default handling for testing unknown targets.
5. New testsuite for expect and runtest.
6. More debugging procedures.

Changes since 1.0:

1. DejaGnu now conforms to POSIX 1003.3, a standard for testing frameworks.
2. A Tcl debugger written by Don Libes has been added.
3. Lots of bug fixes.

Changes since 0.9:

1. DejaGnu now installs itself like other utilities.
2. 700 G++ tests are included.
3. The bugs in the GCC tests have been fixed.
4. Testsuites are released separately.
5. Testsuite sources now reside with the within each tool's source tree.
