This collection started life called the "misc" package, 
but was renamed to "cygutils" at version 0.9.5.

Many of these utilities require the popt library.  Others
may require the gettext and iconv libraries (libintl, libiconv). 

Actually, all of the programs that required gettext have been
removed from this package, as they are now provided by other
packages (usually, the original source package from which they
were once copied into THIS package!).  Thus, "last" is now
in the `sysvinit' package, and `cal' (+ many more) are now in
the `util-linux' package.

However, I've kept the infrastructure for gettext-enabled 
programs just because I don't want to have to regenerate it
if ever we add a new utility to this package which requires
gettext functionality.


A Note on Licensing:
--------------------------------------
Since this package consists of many small utilities taken
from various sources, there are a mixture of licenses.

Most of these utilities are released under the GPL, but
some were originally public domain but are now GPL, and 
others are BSD-no-advert.  

Some files were originally BSD+advert (which is bad, and
not GPL compatible).  However, IF the files in question
were part of the official BSD distribution from UCB, then 
they have been affirmitively converted from BSD+advert to 
BSD-no-advert licensing.  As stated here
<http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.html>:
   Note: The advertising clause in the license appearing 
   on BSD Unix files was officially rescinded by the 
   Director of the Office of Technology Licensing of the 
   University of California on July 22 1999. He states 
   that clause 3 is "hereby deleted in its entirety."

So, files derived from older BSD sources, even if they
still SAY BSD+advert, are now BSD-no-advert.  In 
accordance with the wishes of the Director of UC's OTL, 
I have modified the licensing terms to BSD-no-advert of 
files included in this package that fall under his edict.

What's in this package:
-------------------------------
GPLv3+:
 banner     cygdrop       cygicons.dll   cygstart    dump
 lpr        mkshortcut    readshortcut

 Clipboard:
 putclip   getclip

 Line Ending Conversion:
 conv

 IPC:
 ipck      msgtool    semstat       semtool         shmtool

GPLv2:
 <none>

PublicDomain-now-GPL:
 <none>

BSD-no-advert:
 <none>


