README

GNUstep is a free, object-oriented development environment, consisting
of libraries which implement the basic functionality of most common
applications, as well as various tools to support the developement and
execution of applications. 

The GNUstep core libraries are a set of general-purpose Objective-C
libraries based on the OpenStep standard developed by NeXT (now Apple)
Inc. The libraries consist of everything from foundation classes, such
as dictionaries and arrays, to GUI interface classes such as windows,
sliders, buttons, etc.

Here is some introductory info to get you started:

Initial reading

The file INSTALL gives instructions for installing the package.  The
GNUstep-HOWTO in the make directory gives a more thourough treatment of
GNUstep installation, and is probably the prefered document to read,
particularly for first-time users.

Read the GNUstep-HOWTO for how GNUstep works on specific machines.


The GNUstep web site at http://www.gnustep.org also contains good
documentation.

For documentation on individual libraries, look in the documentation
section/directory for that library.

The GNUstep libraries are covered under the GNU Lesser Public License.
This means you can use these libraries in any program (even non-free
programs). If you distribute the libraries along with your program, you
must make the improvements you have made to the libraries freely
available. You should read the COPYING.LIB file for more information.

GNUstep tools, test programs, and other files are covered under the GNU
Public License. This means if you make changes to these programs, you
cannot charge a fee, other than distribution fees, for others to use the
program. You should read the COPYING file for more information.

How can you help?

 * Check the task list at the GNUstep web site, or subscribe to the
GNUstep newslists for information.  If you can volunteer for any of the
projects, or if you have any useful comments send email!
discuss-gnustep@gnu.org

 * Give us feedback!  Tell us what you like; tell us what you think
could be better.  Send bug reports to bug-gnustep@gnu.org.
